So everybody joins the military as an E1 in boot camp, regardless of your
rate. So once you join the military you get some kinds of incentives
to join, so being a nuclear technician we're allowed to become
E3s immediately. But in boot camp everyone's E1. So as soon as boot
camp ended, then I was promoted to a fireman, which is the the engineering
side of E3 right, and I did that for school, I was in school
for six months, and by the time I graduated that school after six months,
I was promoted to a first class petty officer, which is E4. Then
I was, I went to nuclear power school, and then prototype training.
They're both six months and six months, then I went to my first ship.
Now when I finally got to my first ship, that's when I had been
in for two years and also because of my rate, nuclear technician, they
offered us to automatically be promoted to second class petty officer,
that's E5. And that's what I did, they offered us some cash,
I got forty thousand dollars in cash, and it was tax free because we
were fighting the war and I got automatically promoted to E5. So up
until that time that for the first two years I'd always been automatically
promoted either by school or just by joining, or just by signing
a contract for an additional two years. That automatic promotion
to E5 was because I extended my contract from six years to eight years.
After that time, after that two years, then I was, I got promoted
four years later to E6. So I was promoted E5 in 2002 promoted E6
in 2006, and then I guess I spent two more years in the military, and
then I got out after eight years as an E6, which is first class petty
officer. Then I made chief, which is what I am now, E7 in 2010,
so that's four more years after. So again the time line is I joined
boot camp, that's E1, after boot camp, which is about three months,
then I was E3, a year and a half later I was, I'm sorry six months
later I was E4, at my two year point I was an E5, and then four years
later I was an E6, and four more years after that I was E7, chief.